Improvements to dbt Cloud CI (#3522)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/slim-ci-jobs.md

---

> title: "Slim CI jobs in dbt Cloud"

Reviewer: I feel like this needs a verb, otherwise it seems like another "About" page. 
```suggestion
title: "Set up Slim CI jobs in dbt Cloud"
```

Author: i struggled with this. i'm not a huge fan of Set up Slim CI jobs in dbt Cloud and Set up Slim CI jobs being on the same page. 

let's chat more! added this as a topic for discussion in our team meeting agenda

    <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/ci-deferral.png" width="70%" title="Example of the dropdown for Defer to a previous run state"/>

    - For the option **Commands**, enter `dbt build --select state:modified+` in the field. This informs dbt Cloud to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred job selected to compare state to.

3. In the **Triggers** section, choose the **Continuous Integration** (CI) tab. Then, enable the **Run on Pull Requests** option. This configures pull requests and new commits to be a trigger for the Slim CI job.

> ### Example pull requests

Author: ```suggestion
## Example pull requests
```

The green checkmark means the dbt build and tests were successful. Clicking on the dbt Cloud section navigates you to the relevant CI run in dbt Cloud.

#### GitHub pull request example

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/example-github-pr.png" width="70%" title="GitHub pull request example"/>

Reviewer: Adding a box or call out to the dbt Cloud section they need to click might help them find it in the image faster.

Author: good callout! they're not in the right sidebar either. these should actually be H3s with the recent changes. thank you!

#### GitLab pull request example

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/GitLab-Pipeline.png" width="70%" title="GitLab pull request"/>

#### Azure DevOps pull request example

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/Enabling-CI/ADO CI Check.png" width="70%" title="Azure DevOps pull request"/>

> ## Troubleshooting

Reviewer: Love these troubleshooting sections!

Author: nice! i think @mirnawong1 added them with one of her updates!

         <br></br>
         Select the <b>GitHub</b>, <b>GitLab</b>, or <b>AzureDevOps</b> tab and reselect your repository. That should complete the setup of the project and enable you to set up a dbt Cloud CI job.</div>
   </div>
</details>
<details>
   <summary>Error messages that refer to schemas from previous PRs</summary>
   <div>
      <div>If you receive a schema-related error message referencing a <i>previous</i> PR, this is usually an indicator that you are not using a production job for your deferral and are instead using <i>self</i>.  If the prior PR has already been merged, the prior PR's schema may have been dropped by the time the Slim CI job for the current PR is kicked off.<br></br> <br></br>
      
      To fix this issue, select a production job run to defer to instead of self.
      </div>
   </div>
</details>
<details>
   <summary>Production job runs failing at the <b>Clone Git Repository</b> step</summary>
   <div>
      <div>dbt Cloud can only checkout commits that belong to the original repository. dbt Cloud _cannot_ checkout commits that belong to a fork of that repository.<br></br><br></br>
      

>       If you receive the following error message at the <b>Clone Git Repository</b> step of your job run:<br></br>

Reviewer: @schottj Can we update the error message to contain some of this information?

Reviewer 2: update the error message in dbt Cloud? Lets not hold up merging on this question. I'm going to review the troubleshooting section more closely when we get to phase 3 of the project related to reliability

         Successfully cloned repository.<br></br>
         Checking out to e845be54e6dc72342d5a8f814c8b3316ee220312...<br></br>
         Failed to checkout to specified revision.<br></br>
         git checkout e845be54e6dc72342d5a8f814c8b3316ee220312<br></br>
         fatal: reference is not a tree: e845be54e6dc72342d5a8f814c8b3316ee220312<br></br>
         </code><br></br><br></br>
         
         Double-check that your PR isn't trying to merge using a commit that belongs to a fork of the repository attached to your dbt project.</div>
   </div>
</details>
<details>
   <summary>CI job not triggering for Virtual Private dbt users</summary>
   <div>
      <div>To trigger jobs on dbt Cloud using the <a href="https://docs.getdbt.com/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/admin-cloud-api">API</a>, your Git provider needs to connect to your dbt Cloud account.<br></br><br></br>
      
      If you're on a Virtual Private dbt Enterprise plan using security features like ingress PrivateLink or IP Allowlisting, registering CI hooks may not be available and can cause the job to fail silently.</div>
   </div>
</details>

### Temp PR schema limitations

> If your temporary pull request schemas aren't dropping after a merge or close of the PR, it's likely due to the below scenarios. Open and review the toggles below for recommendations on how to resolve this:

Reviewer: How will they know their temporary PR schemas aren't dropping? Would they see them linger in the Cloud UI? If so where? AN example might be helpful.

---

> title: "Slim CI jobs in dbt Cloud"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Setting up Slim CI jobs in dbt Cloud"
```

> sidebar_label: "Slim CI jobs"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: "Setting up Slim CI jobs"
```

    - If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you must reconfigure the project to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration.

## Set up Slim CI jobs

dbt Labs recommends that you create your Slim CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation between your temporary CI schemas builds and your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their Slim CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to a branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch in your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings), and accordingly the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified, custom branch.

1. On your deployment environment page, click **Create One** to create a new CI job.
2. In the **Execution Settings** section: 

>     - For the option **Defer to a previous run state**, choose whichever production job that's set to run often. If you don't see any jobs to select from the dropdown, you first need to run a production job successfully. Deferral tells dbt Cloud to compare the manifest of the current CI job against the project representation that was materialized the last time the deferred job was run successfully. By setting this option, dbt Cloud only checks the modified code and compares the changes against what’s running in production, instead of building the full table or the entire DAG.

Reviewer 2: Let's also add this cleaner image under this bullet bc we're going delete the image below
<img width="761" alt="image" src="https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/assets/6758803/886a5f13-f38e-4330-be21-5deb583071d0">

---
title: "Slim CI jobs in dbt Cloud"
sidebar_label: "Slim CI jobs"
description: "Learn how to create and set up Slim CI checks to test code changes before deploying to production."
---

> Once you have a Git connection, you can set up Slim [continuous integration](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository. By running and testing only modified models, the run times for jobs are shorter which helps with reducing unnecessary resource usage on your data platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set up Slim [continuous integration](/docs/deploy/continuous-integration) (CI) jobs to run when someone opens a new pull request in your dbt repository. By running and testing only _modified_ models &mdash; what we refer to as _slim_ &mdash;, dbt Cloud ensures CI jobs are as efficient and resource conscientious as possible on your data platform.
```

## Prerequisites

- You have a dbt Cloud account that is on the [Team or Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).
- You must be connected using dbt Cloud’s native integration with [GitHub account](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops).
    - If you’re using GitLab, you must use a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks.
    - If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you must reconfigure the project to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration.

## Set up Slim CI jobs

> 1. Create a production deployment model in dbt Cloud. For details, see [Create a deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-deployment-environment).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
dbt Labs recommends that you create your dbt Cloud CI job in a dedicated dbt Cloud [deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-deployment-environment) that's connected to a staging database. Having a separate dbt Cloud environment dedicated for CI will provide better isolation of where your temp CI schemas build from where your production data builds. Additionally, sometimes teams need their CI jobs to be triggered when a PR is made to branch other than main. If your team maintains a staging branch in your release process, having a separate environment will allow you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings), and accordingly the CI job in that dedicated environment will be triggered only when PRs are made to the specified, custom branch.

```

>     For your dedicated Slim CI job, dbt Labs recommends you set up a separate dbt Cloud environment that's connected to a staging database. This ensures that you have good isolation on where your CI schemas build. Having a separate environment also allows you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings) if you want to trigger CI checks off PRs to a pre-release branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

I moved it above

> 1. On your deployment environment page, click **Create One** to create a new job or edit an existing job to open the **Create Job** settings page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. On your deployment environment page, click **Create One** to create a new CI job.
```

2. In the **Execution Settings** section: 

>     - For the option **Defer to a previous run state**, choose **Production Job (Production)**. This tells dbt Cloud to compare the manifest of the current job against the project representation that was materialized the last time this job was run successfully. By setting this option, dbt Cloud only checks the modified code and compares the changes against what’s running in production, instead of building the full table or the entire DAG.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - For the option **Defer to a previous run state**, choose whichever production job that is set to run most frequently. If you do not see any jobs to select from in the dropdown, you first need to run a production job successfully. Deferral tells dbt Cloud to compare the manifest of the current CI job against the project representation that was materialized the last time the deferred job was run successfully. By setting this option, dbt Cloud only checks the modified code and compares the changes against what’s running in production, instead of building the full table or the entire DAG.
```

    - For the option **Commands**, enter `dbt build --select state:modified+` in the field. This informs dbt Cloud to build only new or changed models and their downstream dependents. Importantly, state comparison can only happen when there is a deferred job selected to compare state to. For more information, refer to [Deferral and state comparision](/docs/deploy/slim-ci-jobs#deferral-and-state-comparison)
3. In the **Triggers** section, choose the **Continuous Integration** (CI) tab. Then, enable the **Run on Pull Requests** option. This configures pull requests and new commits to be a trigger for the Slim CI job.

> ### Deferral and state comparison  

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need this section anymore since it was handled above
.

Author: ran a search to see if any docs link to this section. looks like there are 5 files that do: https://github.com/search?q=repo%3Adbt-labs%2Fdocs.getdbt.com%20%23deferral-and-state-comparison&type=code 

should i replace those instances with https://deploy-preview-3522--docs-getdbt-com.netlify.app/reference/node-selection/syntax#combining-state-and-result-selectors, you think?

Reviewer 2: yes - let's change those links or delete.

- for this [link](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/97b9a5e2c1be04ca8826fdac59aef410e13d9a28/website/docs/docs/deploy/job-settings.md?plain=1#L43), let's just remove the hyperlink for now. We're going to edit that page soon.
- for this [link](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/97b9a5e2c1be04ca8826fdac59aef410e13d9a28/website/docs/docs/cloud/dbt-cloud-ide/dbt-cloud-tips.md?plain=1#L55), we should delete the line "- Use [state and deferral](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) to create a slim CI setup." Slim CI doesn't have to do w/ the IDE.
- for this [link](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/97b9a5e2c1be04ca8826fdac59aef410e13d9a28/website/docs/reference/node-selection/methods.md?plain=1#L235), lets delete "**Note** &mdash; When you define steps in your dbt Cloud jobs, please be aware that the `--state` parameter is automatically included when you click the [**Defer**](/docs/deploy/cloud-ci-job#deferral-and-state-comparison) button." That's just not true today

- for this [link](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/97b9a5e2c1be04ca8826fdac59aef410e13d9a28/website/docs/guides/best-practices/environment-setup/2-one-deployment-environment.md?plain=1#L44), let's just point to this full page on setting up a Slim CI job. The instructions on that page are already slightly out of date, and will be even more out of date soon.

- similar comment on [this link](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/blob/97b9a5e2c1be04ca8826fdac59aef410e13d9a28/website/docs/guides/dbt-ecosystem/databricks-guides/productionizing-your-dbt-databricks-project.md?plain=1#L88), why do we have instructions on setting up a CI job in multiple places? We should just refer people to this page on setting up a CI job, so that we only have to keep 1 place up to date. Setting up CI job is the same steps regardless of your warehouse type.

Author: great, thank you! this is very helpful

When creating a job in dbt Cloud, you can configure your **Execution Settings** to defer to a previous run state by using the dropdown menu to select which _production_ job you want to defer to.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/ci-deferral.png" width="70%" title="Jobs that run
on pull requests can select another job from the same project for deferral and comparison"/>

When a job is selected, dbt Cloud will look at the artifacts from that job's most recent successful run. dbt will then use those artifacts to determine the set of new and modified resources.

In your job commands, you can signal to dbt to run only on these modified resources and their children by including the `state:modified+` argument.

For example:

```
dbt build --select state:modified+
```

Because dbt Cloud manages deferral and state environment variables, there is no need to specify `--defer` or `--state` flags. 

To learn more about state comparison and deferral in dbt, read the docs on [state](/reference/node-selection/syntax#about-node-selection).

### Example pull requests

#### GitHub pull request example

> The green checkmark means the dbt builds and tests were successful. The **Details** link shown here will navigate you to the relevant CI run in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The green checkmark means the dbt build and tests were successful. The **Details** link shown here will navigate you to the relevant CI run in dbt Cloud.
```

Reviewer 2: maybe let's move this up and then just show the 3 pictures so that you don't have to repeat the sentence 3x.

## Prerequisites

- You have a dbt Cloud account that is on the [Team or Enterprise plan](https://www.getdbt.com/pricing/).
- You must be connected using dbt Cloud’s native integration with [GitHub account](/docs/cloud/git/connect-github), [GitLab account](/docs/cloud/git/connect-gitlab), or [Azure DevOps account](/docs/cloud/git/connect-azure-devops).
    - If you’re using GitLab, you must use a paid or self-hosted account which includes support for GitLab webhooks.
    - If you previously configured your dbt project by providing a generic git URL that clones using SSH, you must reconfigure the project to connect through dbt Cloud's native integration.

## Set up Slim CI jobs

1. Create a production deployment model in dbt Cloud. For details, see [Create a deployment environment](/docs/collaborate/environments/dbt-cloud-environments#create-a-deployment-environment).

>     For your dedicated Slim CI job, dbt Labs recommends you set up a separate dbt Cloud environment that's connected to a staging database. This ensures that you have good isolation on where your CI schemas build. Having a separate environment also allows you to set a [custom branch](/faqs/environments/custom-branch-settings) if you want to trigger CI checks off PRs to a pre-release branch.

Author: i didn't really understand what is meant by "trigger CI checks off PRs to a pre-release branch" meant. can you tell me more? 🙏
